Just to understand service worker,
something that you can try right now.
If you open Google Chrome on android or
desktop, is not gonna work on iOS because,
remember, Chrome on iOS
is not actually Chrome.
It works also with Edge as well.
You can go to
chrome://serviceworker-internals.
In Elvish, it's actually Elvish
serviceworker-internals.
This is like a page where you can actually
debug and see all the service workers
that are currently installed in your
machine and you didn't know that.
So you're going to find probably
hundreds of service workers.
And you did know, for example,
here I can see that I have
the starbucks.com service worker.
Remember you don't need to install an app,
the PWA, to actually get a service worker.
So the ServiceWorker registration and
life-cycle,
it goes completely separated from
the installation of the icon.
So we can use the service worker even
in the browser, okay, so we just work.
So, when you get into the website,
just navigate into the URL of the service
worker that we will register.
And then that service worker
can have some abilities,
such as cashing files or
downloading files.
So, for example, here I can take
the app starbucks.com scope.
Here you can see the JavaScript file.
So you can actually go on and open that
URL in case you wanna see the file.
So it's JavaScript, okay,
so everything is public.
And something that you're going to see
here is that it has an installation status
and a running status.
Right now it's activated.
Activated means that this is the active
service worker for the scope.
So if anyone from that scope,
so from this URL,
wants to make a HTTP request,
the active service worker,
so this file can actually be executed and
run some code.
But it's currently stopped,
so it's not executing code.
Let me show you something, I'm going
to create a new Chrome window here,
I'm going to move it like that.
And I'm going to load app starbucks.com/,
no,
I-don't-like-coffee, that's not true but
anyway.
So, of course, that's a URL that
doesn't exist on Starbucks server.
But pay attention to what happens with
the running status of our service worker.
Now it says running.
So even a 404,
because actually no one knows
beforehand that is going to be a 404.
So it runs the Starbucks ServiceWorker,
so now it's running.
So now it has its own thread.
You can execute code for how long?
Let me close that window.
So most of you are expecting
the running status to go back to stop.
So it's not actually tied
to the browser's tab or
to the PWA that actually
opens that service worker.
For how much time it will be running?
It depends on the browser.
Typically, in Chrome, it's 40 seconds.
And now you can see it's stopped.
So after 40 seconds of inactivity,
the service worker goes back to stop.
And it will wait until an event
will fire another running.
Okay, it doesn't make sense?
So it has a completely separate
life cycle from the tab and
if you open more than one tab
it's going to share the instance.
So you won't have more than one
instance of the same service worker
in memory at once.
So if you have two, three, four tabs or
two, three, four PWAs running the same or
Elvishing, you would have
only one service worker and
that service worker will
have different clients.
That's the word that we are using here.
We have one service worker,
different clients.
Each browser's tab can be a client.
Each PWA standalone
instance can be a client.
An iFrame can also be a client.
Also from this URL,
you can force starting a service worker
even if you don't have any client.
You can stop it and
also you can inspect the service worker.
So in this case, and this is important,
the ServiceWorker is completely detached
from the user interface,
so there are no elements.
And if you go to the console, you can
see I'm in the ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.
And if I tried to make an alert like,
hello,
it doesn't work because we do
not have an alert, actually.
So because we are not in the user
interface, we are in a different thread,
this is not the main thread, okay?
That's the idea of a service worker for
now.